---
layout: post
title:  "Version 2"
date:   2013-12-20 21:00:52
categories: rwd
---
When I migrated this blog from wordpress to jekyll I was a bit in a hurry, so I knew that when I managed to come to it I'd have a lot of refactoring to do. Luckily it was, by far, better than I expected!

##Jekyll && SASS
I attribute my lack of stress to these two guys.

**Jekyll** allowed me to separate content in blocks and layouts accordingly to the way I'd use them. **SASS** may be my favorite working tool currently. The possibilities that it hand you to modularize your styles and organize them are awesome, so I'll address that more extensively.

##Sanitary stylesheets
When I had my site at Wordpress, I had only one stylesheet for all (terrible, I know), when I decided to use jekyll it had to be **now!** So, no time to refactor, re-think or anything else. Also, first time I coded the blog, I haven't done Mobile-First (which now I consider a **must-do**). So, yeah, two big tasks:

- Modularize styles
- Transpond to Mobile-First

So, to get started, I re-organized the directory tree by putting all Javascript, Images and Styles inside the an **assets** directory and there went on.
<div class="highlight">
    <pre>
<code data-syntax="none">
assets  |
        | js
        | img
        | styles  |
                  | css
                  | _scss |
                          | main.scss
                          | partials
</code>
</pre>
</div>
Done that, I started creating my partials. I divided them in:
- `settings.scss` : where I keep my variables, mixins, placeholders and some general definitions (I have just a few)
- `normalize.scss` : I just took the `normalize.css` and changed its extension so it would be treated as an `.scss`
- `header.scss` : well... styles for the header.
- `footer.scss` : guess what?! hehe
- `content.scss` : for the home's general content
- `post.scss` : for full posts page

And, at the `main.scss` I used **SASS** `@import` rule, which functions a bit different than **CSS** normal `@import`. This one concatenate the files in compiling stage. Which means I have only one **.css** at the end, and only one **.scss** to watch on. Simple, painless and spot-on. So, my `main.scss` looks like this:

{% highlight sass %}
@import "partials/settings";
@import "partials/vendor/normalize";
@import "partials/vendor/syntax";
@import "partials/header";
@import "partials/footer";
@import "partials/content";
@import "partials/post";
{% endhighlight %}

##Revisiting the layout
Since I was going to review all my **Media Queries** to change the styles for a **Mobile-First**, I took my time to change some aspects of the layout that weren't good for me anymore. First and biggest change was removing the post images to from the home, to make it lighter/faster and more focused on delivering what visitor's may be looking for.

While revising my styles, I made extensive use of the `@at-root` rule to keep my `.scss` styles nested while freeing the `.css` from stressful hierarchy. I found out it was getting much more readable as I had to go back to things I've already changed, so it's probably a technique I'll be repeating from now on.

I also adopted a BEM-like naming style, haven't had the time to adjust all the selectors, but some have already been made, and I'm quite happy about the legibility improvement so far.

##The Media Queries
My goal while making it mobile-first was that:

> Best media queries support is no media query

Don't remember who said that, but I just sticked to the **"less code is more maintainable"** rule and went on trying to reduce my breakpoints and tweakpoints. So far, I have:

{% highlight sass %}
$tp-xtra-small: '(max-width: 19.5em)';

$bp-medium: '(min-width: 42.5em)';
$tp-medium-1: '(min-width: 50.5em)';

$bp-large: '(min-width: 55em)';
$tp-xtra-large: '(min-width: 72.8em)';
{% endhighlight %}

As you may have noticed, I violated the **only min-** or **only max-** rule. That's because my layout was breaking in a very specific narrow viewport, so I decided to make this little tweakpoint for this specific case, the rest will be exclusively **only min--**. The main reason I chose so is because this so narrow viewport occur in a short range of times, and I thought my "natural" styles should be related to the most seen one and work it as the base for the rest.

##Roadmap
So, what you should expect from now is:

- Grunt tasks: I'm working on a Gruntfile to use as base for my projects, and as soon as I finished I'll use it here
- Low-light view: I'll prepare a layout for dim-lighted ambients, to smoothen the reading

##So far, it's all...
If you have any kind of suggestions, feel free to check it at [Github](https://github.com/atilafassina/atilafassina.github.io) and send an issue!